\."##########################################################################
\."  $Id: genders_get_cluster.3,v 1.10 2007-10-17 18:45:28 chu11 Exp $
\."##########################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2007 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
\."  Copyright (C) 2001-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
\."  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
\."  
\."  This file is part of Gendersllnl, a cluster configuration database
\."  and rdist preprocessor for LLNL site specific needs.  This package
\."  was originally a part of the Genders package, but has now been
\."  split off into a separate package.  For details, see
\."  <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
\."  
\."  Gendersllnl is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
\."  under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Gendersllnl is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
\."  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
\."  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
\."  for more details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Gendersllnl.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\."##########################################################################
.TH GENDERS_GET_CLUSTER 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERSLLNL"
.SH NAME
genders_get_cluster \- get the current node name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <gendersllnl.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_get_cluster(genders_t handle, const char *node, char *buf, int buflen);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_get_cluster()\fR retrieves the cluster of the specified
node.  If \fInode\fR is NULL the cluster of the current node is
retrieved.  The cluster name is stored in the buffer pointed to be
\fIbuf\fR.  \fIbuflen\fR should indicate the length of the buffer.

To avoid passing in a buffer that is not large enough to store the
cluster name,
.BR genders_getmaxvallen (3)
should be used to determine the minimum buffer size that should be used. 
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, 0 is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and an error code
is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved
via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR genders_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be
created with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3)
has not been called to load genders data.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OVERFLOW
The buffer pointed to by \fIbuf\fR is not large enough to store the
cluster name.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTFOUND
The node pointed to bey \fInode\fR cannot be found in the genders
file.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h

/usr/include/gendersllnl.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), libgendersllnl(3), genders_handle_create(3),
genders_load_data(3), genders_testattr(3), genders_getmaxvallen(3),
genders_errnum(3), genders_strerror(3)
