\."##########################################################################
\."  $Id: genders_isaltnode.3,v 1.9 2007-10-17 18:34:14 chu11 Exp $
\."##########################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2001-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
\."  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
\."  
\."  This file is part of Gendersllnl, a cluster configuration database
\."  and rdist preprocessor for LLNL site specific needs.  This package
\."  was originally a part of the Genders package, but has now been
\."  split off into a separate package.  For details, see
\."  <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
\."  
\."  Gendersllnl is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
\."  under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Gendersllnl is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
\."  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
\."  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
\."  for more details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Gendersllnl.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\."##########################################################################
.TH GENDERS_ISALTNODE 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERSLLNL"
.SH NAME
genders_isaltnode, genders_isnode_or_altnode \- check for the
existence of nodes or alternate node names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <gendersllnl.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_isaltnode(genders_t handle, const char *altnode);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_isnode_or_altnode(genders_t handle, const char *nodename);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_isaltnode()\fR tests if the alternate node name pointed to
by \fIaltnode\fR is listed in the genders file.

\fBgenders_isnode_or_altnodeattr()\fR tests if the node name pointed
to by \fInodename\fR is listed as a genders node or alternate node
name in the genders file.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
For \fBgenders_isaltnode()\fR, if \fIaltnode\fR is listed in the
genders file as the alternate name of a node, 1 is returned.  If it is
not listed, 0 is returned.

For \fBgenders_isnode_or_altnode()\fR, if \fInodename\fR is listed in
the genders file as node or the alternate name of a node, 1 is
returned.  If it is not listed, 0 is returned.

On error, all both return -1 and an error code is returned in
\fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR genders_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be created
with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3)
has not been called to load genders data.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h

/usr/include/gendersllnl.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), libgendersllnl(3), genders_handle_create(3),
genders_load_data(3), genders_isnode(3), genders_isattr(3),
genders_isattrval(3), genders_errnum(3), genders_strerror(3)
