\."##########################################################################
\."  $Id: genders_string.3,v 1.6 2004-02-04 22:44:52 achu Exp $
\."##########################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2001-2003 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
\."  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
\."  
\."  This file is part of Gendersllnl, a cluster configuration database
\."  and rdist preprocessor for LLNL site specific needs.  This package
\."  was originally a part of the Genders package, but has now been
\."  split off into a separate package.  For details, see
\."  <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
\."  
\."  Gendersllnl is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
\."  under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Gendersllnl is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
\."  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
\."  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
\."  for more details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Gendersllnl; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
\."  59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
\."##########################################################################
.TH GENDERS_TO_GENDNAME 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERSLLNL"
.SH NAME
genders_string_to_gendnames, genders_string_to_gendnames_preserve,
genders_string_to_altnames, genders_string_to_altnames_preserve - convert
between genders node names and alternate node names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <gendersllnl.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_string_to_gendnames(genders_t handle, const char *str, char *buf, int buflen);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_string_to_gendnames_preserve(genders_t handle, const char *str, char *buf, int buflen);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_string_to_altnames(genders_t handle, const char *str, char *buf, int buflen);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_string_to_altnames_preseve(genders_t handle, const char *str, char *buf, int buflen);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_string_to_gendname()\fR, and
\fBgenders_string_to_gendname_preserve()\fR convert a ranged string of
alternate nodenames \fIstr\fR into a ranged string of genders
nodenames.  The resulting ranged string is stored in the buffer
pointed to by \fIbuf\fR.  \fIbuflen\fR should indicate the length of
the buffer.

\fBgenders_string_to_altname()\fR, and
\fBgenders_string_to_altname_preserve()\fR convert a ranged string of
genders nodenames \fIstr\fR into a ranged string of alternate
nodename.  The resulting ranged string is stored in the buffer pointed
to by \fIbuf\fR.  \fIbuflen\fR should indicate the length of the
buffer.

The difference between the 'preserve' and 'non-preserve' conversion
functions depends on whether a nodename listed in the ranged string is
listed in the genders file.  If a nodename is not found in the genders
file, \fBgenders_string_to_gendname()\fR and
\fBgenders_string_to_altname()\fR will return an error.  However,
\fBgenders_string_to_gendname_preserve()\fR and
\fBgenders_string_to_altname_preserve()\fR will store the nodename
into the rseulting ranged string.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, \fBgenders_string_to_gendname()\fR,
\fBgenders_string_to_gendname_preserve()\fR,
\fBgenders_string_to_altname()\fR, and
\fBgenders_string_to_altname_preserve()\fR return 0.  On error, -1 is
returned, and an error code is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error
code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be
created with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3)
has not been called to load genders data.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OVERFLOW
The buffer pointed to by \fIbuf\fR is not large enough to store the
resulting ranged string.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLPTR
A null pointer has been found in the list passed in.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTFOUND
A nodename passed in cannot be found in the genders file.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OUTMEM
.BR malloc (3)
has failed internally, system is out of memory.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_INTERNAL
An internal system error has occurred.  
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h

/usr/include/gendersllnl.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), libgendersllnl(3), genders_handle_create(3),
genders_load_data(3), genders_errnum(3), genders_strerror(3)
