\."##########################################################################
\."  $Id: genders_getaltnodes.3,v 1.7 2006-07-03 22:09:11 chu11 Exp $
\."##########################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2001-2003 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
\."  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
\."  
\."  This file is part of Gendersllnl, a cluster configuration database
\."  and rdist preprocessor for LLNL site specific needs.  This package
\."  was originally a part of the Genders package, but has now been
\."  split off into a separate package.  For details, see
\."  <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
\."  
\."  Gendersllnl is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
\."  under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Gendersllnl is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
\."  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
\."  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
\."  for more details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Gendersllnl; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
\."  59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
\."##########################################################################
.TH GENDERS_GETALTNODES 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERSLLNL"
.SH NAME
genders_getaltnodes, genders_getaltnodes_preserve \- get alternate
node names from the genders file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <gendersllnl.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_getaltnodes(genders_t handle, char *altnodes[], int len, const char *attr, const char *val);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getaltnodes_preserve(genders_t handle, char *altnodes[], int len, const char *attr, const char *val);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_getaltnodes()\fR and \fBgenders_getaltnodes_preserve()\fR
get the alternate names of nodes in the genders file that have the
attribute specified by \fIattr\fR and the value specified by
\fIval\fR.  The node alternate names are stored in the list pointed to
by \fIaltnodes\fR.  \fIlen\fR indicates the number of alternate node
names that can be stored in the list.  If \fIattr\fR is NULL,
\fBgenders_getaltnodes()\fR returns all the alternate names of nodes
listed in the genders file.  If \fIval\fR is NULL, attribute values
are ignored.  The alternate node names returned in \fIaltnodes\fR are
returned in the order they are listed in the genders file.

The difference between \fBgenders_getaltnodes()\fR and
\fBgenders_getaltnodes_preserve()\fR is whether or not an alternate
node name is listed in the genders file for a node.  If an alternate
node name is not listed, \fBgenders_getaltnodes()\fR will return an
error.  However, \fBgenders_getaltnodes_preserve()\fR will return the
name of the original genders node.

To avoid passing in a list that is not large enough to store all the
nodes,
.BR genders_altnodelist_create (3) 
should be used to create a list that is guaranteed to be large enough
to store all alternate names of the nodes.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, the number of alternate node names stored in
\fIaltnodes\fR is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and an error
code is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR genders_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be
created with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3)
has not been called to load genders data.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OVERFLOW
The list pointed to by \fIaltnodes\fR is not large enough to store all
the alternate node names.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLPTR
A null pointer has been found in the list passed in.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OUTMEM
.BR malloc (3) 
has failed internally, system is out of memory.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h

/usr/include/gendersllnl.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), libgendersllnl(3), genders_handle_create(3),
genders_load_data(3), genders_getnodes(3),
genders_altnodelist_create(3), genders_errnum(3), genders_strerror(3)
