\."##########################################################################
\."  $Id: genders_altnodelist.3,v 1.4 2003-12-30 22:51:16 achu Exp $
\."##########################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2001-2003 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
\."  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
\."  
\."  This file is part of Gendersllnl, a cluster configuration database
\."  and rdist preprocessor for LLNL site specific needs.  This package
\."  was originally a part of the Genders package, but has now been
\."  split off into a separate package.  For details, see
\."  <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
\."  
\."  Genders is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
\."  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Genders is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
\."  WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
\."  FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
\."  details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Genders; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
\."  59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
\."##########################################################################
.TH GENDERS_ALTNODELIST_CREATE 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERSLLNL"
.SH NAME
genders_altnodelist_create, genders_altnodelist_clear,
genders_altnodelist_destroy - create, clear, and destroy lists
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <gendersllnl.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_altnodelist_create(genders_t handle, char ***altnodelist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_altnodelist_clear(genders_t handle, char **altnodelist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_altnodelist_destroy(genders_t handle, char **altnodelist);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_altnodelist_create()\fR, \fBgenders_altnodelist_clear()\fR,
\fBgenders_altnodelist_destroy()\fR, are used to create, clear, and
destroy lists (arrays of strings) for use with
.BR genders_getaltnodes (3).  

\fBgenders_altnodelist_create()\fR creates a list with minimum size to
store alternate node names.  \fIaltnodelist\fR is set to point to the
created list.

\fBgenders_altnodelist_clear()\fR clear any information stored in the
list pointed to by \fIaltnodelist\fR.  This does not have be called
after \fBgenders_altnodelist_create()\fR .  It only has to be called after
it is used in
.BR genders_getaltnodes (3)
and the programmer wishes to re-use the list.  

\fBgenders_altnodelist_destroy()\fR destroys the list pointed to by
\fIaltnodelist\fR.  
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, \fBgenders_altnodelist_create()\fR returns the number of
elements the created list can store.  On success,
\fBgenders_altnodelist_clear()\fR and \fBgenders_altnodelist_destroy()\fR
return 0.  On error, -1 is returned, and an error code is returned in
\fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR genders_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be created
with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3)
has not been called to load genders data.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLPTR
A null pointer has been found in the list passed in.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OUTMEM
.BR malloc (3)
has failed internally, system is out of memory.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
/usr/include/gendersllnl.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), libgendersllnl(3), genders_handle_create(3), genders_load_data(3),
genders_getaltnodes(3), genders_errnum(3), genders_strerror(3)
