.\"##########################################################################
.\"  $Id: libgendersllnl.3,v 1.11 2008-03-28 17:03:00 chu11 Exp $
.\"##########################################################################
.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2001-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
.\"  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.\"  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
.\"  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
.\"  
.\"  This file is part of Gendersllnl, a cluster configuration database
.\"  and rdist preprocessor for LLNL site specific needs.  This package
.\"  was originally a part of the Genders package, but has now been
.\"  split off into a separate package.  For details, see
.\"  <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
.\"  
.\"  Gendersllnl is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
.\"  under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\"  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\"  any later version.
.\"  
.\"  Gendersllnl is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\"  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
.\"  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\"  for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\"  with Gendersllnl.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"##########################################################################
.TH LIBGENDERSLLNL 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERSLLNL"
.SH NAME
libgendersllnl \- a library of LLNL site specific genders functions 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <gendersllnl.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_get_cluster(genders_t handle, const char *node, char *buf, int buflen);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_altnodelist_create(genders_t handle, char ***altnodelist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_altnodelist_clear(genders_t handle, char **altnodelist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_altnodelist_destroy(genders_t handle, char **altnodelist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getaltnodes(genders_t handle, char *altnodes[], int len, const char *attr, const char *val);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getaltnodes_preserve(genders_t handle, char *altnodes[], int len, const char *attr, const char *val);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_isaltnode(genders_t handle, const char *altnode);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_isnode_or_altnode(genders_t handle, const char *node);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_to_gendname(genders_t handle, const char *altnode, char *buf, int buflen);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_to_gendname_preserve(genders_t handle, const char *altnode, char *buf, int buflen);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_to_altname(genders_t handle, const char *node, char *buf, int buflen);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_to_altname_preserve(genders_t handle, const char *node, char *buf, int buflen);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_string_to_gendnames(genders_t handle, const char *str, char *buf, int buflen);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_string_to_gendnames_preserve(genders_t handle, const char *str, char *buf, int buflen);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_string_to_altnames(genders_t handle, const char *str, char *buf, int buflen);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_string_to_altnames_preserve(genders_t handle, const char *str, char *buf, int buflen);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The gendersllnl library functions are an additional set of genders
parsing functions that are specific to LLNL.  The API works similarly
to the 
.BR libgenders (3)
API and requires that a genders handle be created, genders data be
loaded, and the genders handle passed to individual functions.

For instructions on each of the above functions, please see the
individual manpages or read the comments written in
/usr/include/gendersllnl.h.
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/gendersllnl.h
.sp
/etc/genders
.SH SEE ALSO
Libgendersllnl(3), Gendersllnl(3), libgenders(3),
genders_get_cluster(3), genders_altnodelist_create(3),
genders_altnodelist_clear(3), genders_altnodelist_destroy(3),
genders_getaltnodes(3), genders_getaltnodes_preserve(3),
genders_isaltnode(3), genders_isnode_or_altnode(3),
genders_to_gendname(3), genders_to_gendname_preserve(3),
genders_to_altname(3), genders_to_altname_preserve(3),
genders_string_to_gendnames(3),
genders_string_to_gendnames_preserve(3),
genders_string_to_altnames(3), genders_string_to_altnames_preserve(3)
